Preparing To Create an Avere Cluster

Before starting the cluster creation, make sure you have followed
instructions in the

FXT 5000 Series Installation Guide

 to correctly rack and cable the FXT nodes in your datacenter. Make
sure that at least one node is powered on.

Required Information

The Avere cluster requires the following information for its initial
configuration.

Name that you want to assign to the cluster

Administrative password that you want to set for the cluster

IP addresses:  A single IP address for cluster management, and the
netmask and router to use for the management network  The first and
last IP addresses in a contiguous range of IP addresses for cluster
(internode) communication (see IP Address Distribution, below, for
details)  (Client-facing IP addresses are set after cluster creation.)

Optional but strongly recommended network infrastructure:  The IP
address of a DNS server for the cluster  The name of the DNS domain
for the cluster  The name or IP address for either one, or for three
or more, NTP servers

Whether you want to enable IEEE 802.1AX-2008 link aggregation on the
clusterâ€™s interfaces

If you are enabling link aggregation, whether to use IEEE 802.3ad
(LACP) dynamic aggregation

IP Address Distribution

An Avere cluster uses IP addresses in three categories:

Management IP: A single IP address for cluster management  This
address serves as the entry point to access the cluster configuration
utilities (Avere Control Panel or the XML-RPC API). This address is
automatically assigned to the primary node in the cluster, and it
moves automatically if the primary node changes.  Other IP addresses
can be used to access the control panel, but the management IP address
is designed to provide access even if individual nodes fail over.

Cluster Network: A range of IP addresses for cluster communication
The cluster network is used for communication among cluster nodes and
to retrieve files from the backend storage (core filers).  Best
practice: Allocate one IP address per physical port used for cluster
communication on each FXT Series node. The cluster automatically
assigns the addresses in the specified range to individual nodes.

Client-facing network: The range of IP addresses that clients use to
request and write files  The client network addresses are used by
clients to access the core filer data through the Avere cluster. For
example, an NFS client might mount one of these addresses.  Best
practice: Allocate one IP address per physical port used for client
communication on each FXT Series node.  The cluster distributes
client-facing IP addresses across its constituent nodes as evenly as
possible.  For simplicity, many administrators configure a single DNS
name with round-robin DNS (RRDNS) configuration to make it easier to
distribute client requests across the address range. This setup also
enables all clients to use the same mount command to access the Avere
cluster. See Configuring DNS for the Avere Cluster for more
information.

The management IP address and a range of cluster network addresses
must be specified to create a new cluster; client-facing addresses are
specified after cluster creation.
