Appendix A: Setting a Static IP Address on an FXT Node

This appendix explains how to connect to an FXT node physically and
set a temporary static IP address on one of the network ports.

You might need to set a static address if your network does not
support using self-assigned IP addresses (in the 169.254.*.* range)
and your node does not receive an IP address automatically from a DHCP
server.

Each node needs one IP address before it can be used to create a
cluster or be added to an Avere cluster. These IP addresses are only
used temporarily; during normal operation, the cluster assigns IP
addresses to each node.

Connecting to the Physical Node

There are a variety of ways to connect to the FXT node, including
using the serial port, the USB and VGA ports, or the IPMI port. All of
these ports are on the back of the chassis. You can use a serial cable
or KVM switch, or directly connect a monitor and keyboard to the
chassis.

The node's bootloader echoes boot messages to the serial console and
accepts interaction from a console command prompt.

Serial Port Configuration Settings

Use a null modem cable to connect to the serial port on the back of
the FXT node's chassis.

An FXT node serial port uses these configuration settings:

Speed: 115200 baud

Data bits: 8

Stop bits: 1

Parity: None

Flow control: None

FXT 5000 Series Port Locations

This diagram shows the port names and locations for FXT 5000 Series
hardware nodes. The 1GbE ports (e0a, e0b, e0c, and e0c) are typically
used for initial configuration.

(The data ports - e2a, e2b, e3a, and e3b - are slightly different in
different FXT 5000 Series models. The FXT 5850 has dual-mode
25GbE/10GbE data ports, but other models have 10GbE ports with the
same names.)


Logging In and Setting the IP Address

After connecting to the node, you will use the maintenance menu to
configure one of the network interfaces.

Log in to the node with the username "maintenance" and the default
password "tiered2010". The node displays the maintenance menu:

   You have logged into the AvereOS maintenance menu.  If you are configuring a
   cluster for the first time, use menu item 1 to configure a network port, and
   then access https://ip/fxt to complete the cluster configuration.

   Node [name] running [AvereOS_version]

   Maintenance Menu
   1.   Configure network parameters before cluster join
   2.   Modify cluster management network parameters
   3.   Configure a new cluster
   4.   Reboot node
   5.   Power down node
   6.   Disable NVRAM batteries
   7.   Install new software packages
   8.   Configure node IPMI networking
   9.   Reformat node
   Enter menu item number or type "exit" to log out:

Type "1" and press Return.

   Enter menu item number or type "exit" to log out:  1
   This will configure the initial networking parameters.
   After configuration, connect via https to the address
   supplied to complete configuration

   Port       Address         Netmask         MTU  Link
   ---------- --------------- --------------- ---- ----
   e0a        169.254.6.37    255.255.224.0   1500 up
   e0b        169.254.5.163   255.255.224.0   1500 up
   e0c        169.254.5.146   255.255.224.0   1500 up
   e0d        169.254.6.114   255.255.224.0   1500 up

   Router:
   DHCP:  enabled

   DNS Server:
   Use link aggregates? [y]:

If your system uses link aggregates, make sure this configuration is
correct. The system then asks you to configure by DHCP if a server is
available, and if not, prompts you to specify the port to configure
and the new settings.

   Configure using DHCP? [y]:  n
   Port name [e0a]:

If you don't want to configure the suggested port (the first port on
the list), enter a different value.

   MTU [1500]:
   VLAN tag (use default for untagged) [none]:
   IP address [169.254.6.37]:

Make any changes to the MTU or VLAN tag settings that your network
requires.

When prompted with the existing IP address, type in the new address.

To prevent conflicts, assign an IP address that is on the same subnet
and VLAN as the IPs in your cluster network, but outside the cluster
network's IP address range. Remember that this IP address is
temporary, and it is used only until the cluster is created or until
this node is added to the cluster. As part of the cluster, the FXT
node's ports are configured with IP addresses from within the cluster
network range.

   IP address [169.254.6.37]:  203.0.113.0
   Netmask [255.255.224.0]:
   Router []: 10.1.0.1
   DNS server [None]:
   Commit changes? [yn]:

Type "y" to complete the configuration change.

You only need to set one static IP address per node. After confirming
the address change, you can end the console session to this node.
(Type "exit" and press Return to end the sesion.)

If this is the first node in your cluster, follow the instructions in

Connect to the First Node

 to connect to the static IP address that you just set and begin
cluster creation.

If this node will join an existing cluster, follow the instructions in

Adding Nodes to the Cluster

 to locate it and join it to the cluster.
