Using the Avere Cluster To Move or Mirror Data

Avere OS's FlashMove^® and FlashMirror^® features help you move and
copy data from one file location to another, including from one core
filer to another. They allow the Avere cluster to act as a controller
for migrating data among various storage components.

FlashMove lets you migrate data between storage systems without
interrupting client access or having to change any client settings.

FlashMirror provides ongoing synchronous data replication between two
back-end storage systems for data protection.

You can use these tools to move or replicate data in a variety of
storage systems:

between NAS hardware systems

between cloud storage systems

between NAS storage and cloud storage

within a single system between two exports or subdirectories

Avere OS's Data Management features can move data between storage
systems from different providers that use different technologies, as
long as each system can be defined as a core filer in the Avere
cluster.

Note: Additional licenses are required to enable the FlashMove and
  FlashMirror features. Read

  Appendix A: Adding or Removing Feature Licenses

   to learn how to purchase and install the licenses.

Create and monitor data migration jobs from the Data Management tab in
the Avere Control Panel.

FlashMove Overview

FlashMove copies the contents of a specified file tree from one core
filer to another. If the original location was accessed through the
Avere cluster, FlashMove automatically changes settings so that the
Avere cluster uses the new storage location instead of the old
location.

Because clients access the data through the Avere cluster instead of
on the storage volume itself, FlashMove can migrate data while it is
in use, and with no need to modify client applications.


This diagram shows an Avere cluster with the back-end file path
"<Vendor B>/src" defined as "/src" in the client-facing namespace.
(This is mapping is called a

namespace junction

  and is part of the Avere OS global namespace feature - read

Using a Global Namespace

 in the Avere OS Configuration Guide for details.)

A FlashMove job is created that migrates the data from "<Vendor
B>/src" to "<Vendor C>/src". (The actual path names can be different,
and do not need to be identical to the junction name.)

During the move, the data is continuously available through the Avere
cluster junction. Clients can view and change data, and Avere OS
automatically keeps the data synchronized as part of the move.

After the data is completely copied to the Vendor C core filer, the
cluster modifies the junction so that it references the new location
of the moved files. That is, when a client application writes data to
"<cluster>/src", that data is stored on the back end in "<Vendor
C>/src".

This process also can be used between multiple exports on one core
filer, and between hardware storage and cloud object stores.

Leveraging FlashMove

Because FlashMove can migrate data without affecting client access, it
gives you the flexibility to use a variety of storage solutions to
maximize effectiveness and cost savings.

With FlashMove, you can:

Retire or service a NAS storage system without user downtime

Seamlessly move a segment of data to cloud storage (either private or
public cloud), or from a cloud vendor back to another NAS solution

Load-balance your storage by temporarily moving data for an active
project to your fastest cloud or NAS storage system, then moving it
back to slower, less expensive storage after the project is finished

Read

FlashMove In Depth

 for a detailed discussion of the FlashMove process.

FlashMirror Overview

Like FlashMove, FlashMirror also copies the contents of a filesystem
from one core filer to another. However, after the initial copying is
finished, FlashMirror keeps the primary and secondary filesystems
synchronized with each other as clients make changes.

Clients continue to access their files through the cluster, and any
changes are written to both the original location and the mirror
location.


This diagram shows an Avere cluster with the back-end file path
"<Vendor A>/src" defined as the junction "/src" in the client-facing
namespace. (Read

Using a Global Namespace

 in the Avere OS Configuration Guide for more information.)

The cluster has an active FlashMirror job that copies the data stored
in "<Vendor A>/src" to "<Vendor C>/src". As clients change the data
from the cluster, both locations are updated and kept synchronized.

If the primary storage system becomes unavailable, you can

transition

 the mirror, which changes the namespace junction to point to the
secondary filesystem. This transition is seamless for clients. The
mirror also can be reversed - for example, if you need to take the
primary system out of service for maintenance, you can change the
secondary system to be the primary system and allow the mirror to go
out of sync until the other volume is back in service. When the other
system comes back online, changes are automatically synchronized to
that volume again, since it is now the secondary in the mirror system.
You have the option to continue the mirror with the current
primary/secondary setup, or reverse the mirror again if you prefer to
have the original source volume be the primary.

Leveraging FlashMirror

Like FlashMove, FlashMirror is invisible to the applications using the
data. It can be useful for situations like these:

Keeping a second copy of important data for disaster recovery

Distributing data that is needed at multiple geographic sites

Consistent Client Namespace

FlashMove and FlashMirror operations can take place behind the scenes
without any interruption in client file access because of Avere OS's
Global Namespace (GNS) feature.

The Global Namespace feature allows the structure of back-end storage
to be hidden from users. Exported volumes on back-end core filers are
mapped to the Avere cluster's virtual filesystem. Clients connect to
virtual directories that provide junctions to the actual storage. (For
more information about GNS, read

Using a Global Namespace

 in the Avere OS Configuration Guide.)

When you move data with FlashMove or FlashMirror, Avere OS
automatically updates the namespace mappings so that the junctions
point to a different physical storage volume.

To avoid data consistency errors, Avere OS prevents you from migrating
data to or from certain filesystem paths. (For a detailed explanation
of these situations, read

Maintaining A Consistent Namespace

.)
