FlashMove Overview

FlashMove copies the contents of a specified file tree from one core
filer to another. If the original location was accessed through the
Avere cluster, FlashMove automatically changes settings so that the
Avere cluster uses the new storage location instead of the old
location.

Because clients access the data through the Avere cluster instead of
on the storage volume itself, FlashMove can migrate data while it is
in use, and with no need to modify client applications.


This diagram shows an Avere cluster with the back-end file path
"<Vendor B>/src" defined as "/src" in the client-facing namespace.
(This is mapping is called a

namespace junction

  and is part of the Avere OS global namespace feature - read

Using a Global Namespace

 in the Avere OS Configuration Guide for details.)

A FlashMove job is created that migrates the data from "<Vendor
B>/src" to "<Vendor C>/src". (The actual path names can be different,
and do not need to be identical to the junction name.)

During the move, the data is continuously available through the Avere
cluster junction. Clients can view and change data, and Avere OS
automatically keeps the data synchronized as part of the move.

After the data is completely copied to the Vendor C core filer, the
cluster modifies the junction so that it references the new location
of the moved files. That is, when a client application writes data to
"<cluster>/src", that data is stored on the back end in "<Vendor
C>/src".

This process also can be used between multiple exports on one core
filer, and between hardware storage and cloud object stores.

Leveraging FlashMove

Because FlashMove can migrate data without affecting client access, it
gives you the flexibility to use a variety of storage solutions to
maximize effectiveness and cost savings.

With FlashMove, you can:

Retire or service a NAS storage system without user downtime

Seamlessly move a segment of data to cloud storage (either private or
public cloud), or from a cloud vendor back to another NAS solution

Load-balance your storage by temporarily moving data for an active
project to your fastest cloud or NAS storage system, then moving it
back to slower, less expensive storage after the project is finished

Read

FlashMove In Depth

 for a detailed discussion of the FlashMove process.
