Cluster > FXT Nodes


The FXT Nodes page displays information about the nodes that are in
the cluster, as well as a list of unconfigured FXT nodes that are
visible to the cluster on the network.

From this page, you can do the following:

Load the Node Details page for a cluster node

Add nodes to the cluster

Restart or shut down a node

Suspend a node

Remove nodes from the cluster

Caution: Any operations that affect the nodeâ€™s connectivity to an
  active cluster, including removal, restart, and shutdown, can cause
  temporary service disruptions to clients.

About the Node Details Page

Click the name of an FXT node in the list to load its Node Details
page. This page gives node-specific information including
configuration, performance statistics, hardware information, node
storage, and core filer connections, for one specific node in the
cluster.

The Node Details page has some node-specific settings. You can
customize the node name and IPMI configuration. It also has an
interactive node diagram that highlights failed drives and lets you
turn on the drive bay light for unit identification.

The Node Details page does not appear in the sidebar list; you must
access it by clicking a node name link on other settings pages.

Read

Node Details

 for complete information.

Adding Nodes to the Cluster

You can add a node to the cluster by finding the node in the unjoined
nodes list and clicking the Allow To Join button in its Actions
column.

Node names are automatically assigned as each node joins a cluster.
You can customize the node naming scheme on the

Cluster > General Setup

 page.

Important: When a new node is added to the cluster, all client and
  core filer interfaces are automatically rebalanced across all nodes,
  including the new node. This can result in a brief suspension of
  file services; however, data is not at risk of loss or corruption.

Updating Node Software

If you attempt to add a node running on an older software version,
Avere OS will attempt to upgrade the software to match the version on
the existing cluster nodes. You can use the Match OS Version button to
update software before adding the node.

The Match OS Version button also can be used on unjoined nodes to keep
reserve nodes updated to the same version of the software running on
the cluster nodes.

Searching For a Node

If a node does not appear in the unjoined nodes list, you can search
for it. Click the Manual Discovery button and enter its IP address in
the search box.


Note: After a node is removed from the cluster, it might not appear
  on the unjoined nodes list for several minutes. If the node does not
  appear within ten minutes and cannot be found by searching, contact
  Avere Global Services.

Node Actions

The Actions column in the Cluster Nodes table provides access to most
node functions. Options include the following:

Restart Services
   Restarts all Avere OS services on the node without rebooting the
   node.

Reboot
   Restarts a node.

Power Down
   Shuts down a node completely. Use this option when moving a node to
   another physical location.

Remove
   Permanently removes a node from the cluster.

Reformat
   Reformats data drives on the node. This feature can be used to
   format replacement drives after a drive failure.

   If the cluster detects a drive problem, it automatically reformats
   the affected drive and takes it out of service (the node runs on
   its remaining drives). A condition notice appears on the dashboard
   to indicate that the physical drive should be replaced. To
   incorporate the replacement drive in the system, administrators
   must manually click the Reformat button. Only one node can be
   reformatted at a time.

Offline
   Stops all node services but leaves the node powered on.

Suspend
   Temporarily stops a node from answering client requests. This
   option can help you determine whether or not a node is causing a
   cluster problem.
