Cluster > Administrative Network


The second page in the Cluster section of the Settings tab has network
configuration options.

Networking settings are configured when you create the cluster (read
Section 2 of the

Avere Quick Start Guide

 for details), but they can be changed on this page.

Important: Be cautious when making changes to network settings on a
  cluster that is being used. Consult Avere Global Services if you are
  unsure about the possible implications of network configuration
  changes.

Read

Configuring Network Services for an Avere Cluster

 to learn more about this configuring networks for Avere OS clusters.

About "Advanced Networking"

A feature called Advanced Networking, which enables multiple VLANs and
a few other network features, was optional in earlier versions of
Avere OS. Clusters that were upgraded from before Avere OS 4.5 might
still have this feature disabled. If a blank checkbox labeled Enable
advanced networking appears on the

Cluster > General Setup

 page, then advanced networking has not been activated for this
cluster. The feature cannot be deactivated.

Most clusters have advanced networking features enabled by default,
and the term "advanced networking" does not appear in the Avere
Control Panel for such systems.

Slightly different options appear on this page if advanced networking
is disabled:

    Advanced Networking enabled  Advanced Networking disabled
Management VLAN  Node Management Addresses table  Default MTU  Default
Router  Static Routes  Node Management Addresses range

These settings are described at the end of this document in

Settings for Clusters that use Basic Networking

.

For systems with advanced networking, MTU and router parameters are
configured for individual VLANs on the

Cluster > VLAN

 settings page, and static routes can be created from that page as
well.

Administrative Network Settings

Management IP

This is the preferred IP address to use when accessing the Avere
Control Panel.

(You also can access the Avere Control Panel by typing an individual
node's IP address; this can be helpful for troubleshooting.)

After changing this setting, you should use exit the Avere Control
Panel and use the new IP address to log back in.

Management Netmask

Use this field to change the netmask for the cluster administration IP
address.

Management VLAN

This setting does not appear on clusters with advanced networking
disabled.

Choose one of the VLANs in the system to use for traffic between the
management network and individual cluster nodes. To create additional
VLANs, use the Cluster > VLAN settings page.

Only VLANs with the role Management appear in this list. Read

VLAN Roles

 for more information.

DNS Settings

The three DNS-related fields allow you to configure the cluster's DNS
parameters. Read

Configuring DNS for the Avere Cluster

 for additional information about using DNS in an Avere OS cluster.

A DNS name can include alphanumeric characters (A-Z and 0-9) and the
hyphen character (-). It can include the period character (.) as a
delimiter between segments of domain names.

DNS Servers

Use the DNS Server(s) field to specify the IP addresses of up to three
DNS servers for the cluster. Separate multiple IP addresses with
spaces.

DNS Domain

The DNS Domain field contains the name of the network domain. Edit it
to change the value. There can be only one.

DNS Search

Optionally, use the DNS Search field to enter additional host names
that the system should search to resolve DNS queries. You can add up
to six domain names, separated by spaces.

Time Parameters

There are several time-related settings on this page.

Time Zone

The Timezone drop-down selector sets the time zone for the cluster.
You might want to change this value if the cluster begins serving
clients in a different location than it did when it was created.

NTP Servers

The NTP Server(s) field lets you specify the cluster's network time
protocol servers.

Important: Specify either one NTP server, or three NTP servers in
  this field. If two NTP servers are used, and they give different
  values, cluster operation can be impaired because the conflict is
  not easily resolved. Inconsistent timestamps can result in out-of-
  order file operations and other problems.

Then NTP Server(s) field accepts hostnames or IP addresses; separate
values with spaces.

NTP Multicast Servers

If your NTP servers are configured for multicasting, check the Use NTP
Multicast Servers.

Separate Management Network

Check the Use 1Gb Management Network box if you want to assign the
1GbE management ports on your FXT nodes to a separate network reserved
for management traffic.

In FXT 4000 series hardware and earlier, the management network uses
the two built-in ports (e0a and e0b) and leaves the 1GbE ports on the
network adapter available for other traffic. FXT 5000 series hardware
has four built-in 1GbE ports (e0a, e0b, e0c, and e0d), and all four
are included in the management network if this box is checked.

If Use 1Gb Management Network is selected, management addresses and
cluster management addresses are assigned only among the 1Gb
management ports.

Node Management Addresses

If advanced networking is disabled, only one address range can be
defined.

A table of IP address ranges reserved for node management traffic
appears below the Administrative Network section of the page.
Configuring a reserved address range is optional; otherwise, the
system uses the same network interfaces for both data and management
traffic.

Reserved management addresses are distributed across the cluster nodes
so that each node is guaranteed to have at least one management IP.
(If using this feature, you must specify a range large enough to
supply all of the nodes in the cluster. You can modify the range to
add more IP addresses if your cluster grows beyond the supply.)

If your range includes more IP addresses than there are nodes in the
cluster, the extra addresses are retained until they are needed. For
example, if you specify a range of twelve IP addresses in a three-node
cluster, the cluster allocates one management address to each node in
the cluster and holds the remaining nine addresses in reserve in case
more nodes are added to the cluster. If nodes are added, the cluster
assigns each new node a reserved IP address until the range is
exhausted.

The reserved management IP address assigned to each node is shown in
the Nodes tab of the Avere Control Panel dashboard page. A column
named Node Mgmt IP shows the address assigned to each cluster node. If
you have not configured reserved management IP addresses, this column
does not appear. The

Node Details

 settings page also shows management IP addresses.

Use the Node Management Addresses section to add or modify management
address ranges.

To delete an address range and free its IP addresses, select it in the
table and click Delete.

Adding a Management IP Address Range

Click the Add New Range button to create a new range, or select an
address range in the list and click Modify to update one.


Specify the addresses by entering the first and last address in the
range. The number of addresses is automatically calculated.

Enter the subnet mask in the field provided, and choose the VLAN that
these addresses should use.

If you do not choose a designated management VLAN, it is strongly
recommended that you choose a VLAN that uses the same gateway as the
management VLAN for your cluster. If the gateway of the management
VLAN does not match the gateway of the (optional) node administration
VLAN, the management interface might behave strangely.

Settings for Clusters that use Basic Networking

If advanced networking is

disabled

, additional network settings appear on this page.

For typical clusters, which use advanced networking, these settings
can be configured for individual VLANs from the VLAN page. Read

Cluster > VLAN

 for details about how to customize these features when using advanced
networking.


Default MTU

This setting appears only for systems without advanced networking.

Use this field to set or change the maximum transmission unit (MTU)
setting for the cluster. If not customized, the default value is 1500
bytes.

The MTU setting is used on all cluster interfaces, including client-
facing addresses, cluster addresses, and management addresses.

Typical values for the MTU setting are 1500 (the default) and 9000.
Custom values are also permitted. If you specify a value greater than
1500, jumbo frames (with more than 1500 bytes of payload) are
automatically enabled for the cluster.

Important: Before setting or changing the clusterâ€™s MTU value,
  verify the proposed value with your network administrator,
  particularly if you are specifying a value that enables jumbo
  frames.

Note: If you specified the optional non-management MTU and non-
  management netmask while Use 1Gb Management network was active,
  those MTU settings continue to be used even after the checkbox is
  deselected.Make sure you remove the non-management MTU and non-
  management netmask settings before deselecting the management
  network feature.When joining a node to a cluster with a physically
  separate management network, connect only the cluster ports on the
  joining node. After the node has joined, the management network
  ports may be connected.

Default Router

This setting appears only for systems without advanced networking.

The default router is used by all of the cluster's networking
interfaces. To change the setting, enter a new value in the Default
Router field and click Submit. The value must be in dot-decimal IPv4
notation.

Static Routes

This setting appears only for systems without advanced networking.

The Static Routes field allows you to add a manual entry to the
default router's routing table.

To set a static route, enter the following three values as a space-
separated list in the Static Routes field. All three values must be
specified in dot-decimal IPv4 notation.

Destination IP address

Netmask (can be specified either in dot-decimal IPv4 notation or in
/number_of_bits format)

Gateway

The following example specifies a static route with the destination IP
address 203.0.113.0, the netmask 255.255.255.0, and the gateway
192.0.2.118:

"203.0.113.0 255.255.255.0 192.0.2.118"

To enter more than one static route, separate the space-separated
route definitions with commas. The following example shows two entries
(the first example, plus an additional static route):

"203.0.113.0 255.255.255.0 192.0.2.118, 198.51.100.4 255.255.255.0
192.0.2.118"
