Appendix H: Updating Cloud Storage Permissions for an AWS vFXT Cluster

This article explains an extra step that might be required when adding
or replacing a cloud core filer on a vFXT cluster that is hosted on
Amazon Web Services (AWS).

This step is required the first time you add or change storage buckets
on an AWS-hosted Avere cluster.

About Cloud Bucket Access with AWS vFXT Clusters

When you create a vFXT cluster with a cloud core filer on AWS, Avere
software automatically creates an IAM policy that allows the cluster
nodes to access the bucket for the core filer. (This is true
regardless of whether you created a new bucket or if you specified an
existing bucket to use as the core filer at creation time.)

The automatically created policy allows access

only

 to the specific storage bucket specified when creating the cluster.
If you later want to add a different cloud core filer, you must edit
the IAM policy to let the nodes access the new bucket.

To allow access to a different bucket, change the resource statements
in the IAM policy so that they allow access to any bucket, instead of
restricting the cluster nodes to accessing one specific bucket.

Optionally, you can add or substitute the new bucket name instead of
opening access to all connected cloud buckets, but allowing access to
all buckets is easier and more flexible. Refer to AWS documentation to
learn how to add a second bucket resource.

Updating the Cluster IAM Policy

Follow these steps to revise the cluster policy to allow access to a
different storage bucket.

Open the AWS IAM console.

Identify the role created for the cluster. The role name has the form
policy_avere_cluster_role_##########_<cluster name>

Select the role for your cluster, then click the Edit Policy link at
the bottom of the page.

Find the resource lines that specify the original cloud core filer.
They will have the form  "Resource": [
"arn:aws:s3:::<bucket name>"  There usually are two resource
statements, one like the one above, and one that includes /* after the
bucket name.

Replace the bucket names in these statements with a wildcard character
to allow access to all buckets.  Specifically:  Change
arn:aws:s3:::<bucket name> to arn:aws:s3:::*  Change
arn:aws:s3:::<bucket name>/* to arn:aws:s3:::*/*

Click Apply Policy when done.
