Appendix H: IAM Settings for an AWS Core Filer

This article outlines the process for creating an AWS bucket with
appropriate access permissions to use as a cloud core filer with an
Avere cluster.

Note: This process applies to a cluster that uses physical FXT
  nodes; if your cluster is a vFXT cluster hosted on AWS, check the
  information in

  Appendix H: Updating Cloud Storage Permissions for an AWS vFXT
  Cluster

  .

When you create an AWS bucket for use with an Avere cluster, you must
specify an access management policy for the storage. Follow these
basic steps.

Create the bucket as administrator, and note its Amazon Resource Name
(ARN).

Go to the AWS Identity and Access (IAM) panel. Create a user for
accessing the bucket.

Set up access to the bucket.  If you are not concerned with strictly
controlling access to the AWS bucket, you can use the S3 "full access"
default policy:  arn:aws:s3:::* arn:aws:s3:::/  To create a more
restrictive policy, use the IAM panel to add an inline custom policy
to the bucket user.  Create a custom policy with settings like the
following:  {     "Version": "2012-10-17",     "Statement": [
{             "Effect": "Allow",             "Action": [
"s3:GetLifecycleConfiguration",
"s3:GetBucketLocation",                 "s3:ListBucket",
"s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads",
"s3:ListBucketVersions",
"s3:PutLifecycleConfiguration"             ],             "Resource":
[                 "arn:aws:s3:::<bucketARN>"             ]         },
{             "Effect": "Allow",             "Action": [
"s3:AbortMultipartUpload",                 "s3:DeleteObject",
"s3:GetObject",                 "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts",
"s3:PutObject"             ],             "Resource": [
"arn:aws:s3:::<bucketARN>/*"             ]         }     ] }

Use the Security Credentials page in the AWS Management Console to
generate an access key for the cluster to use when accessing the
bucket. This key must be provided to the Avere Control Panel when
adding the cloud core filer so that the Avere cluster can access the
bucket.  [ xxx wait, is this different from the encryption key we
create for the bucket during cloud core filer definition? xxx  ] [ xxx
should this be in Security Credentials (root user) or in IAM (other
user)? see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-
types.html xxx ]
