Using a Global Namespace

When designing your Avere cluster, you should consider how clients
access files from back-end storage. The Global Namespace (GNS) feature
in Avere OS gives you the ability to create a client-facing namespace
with a different structure from the actual back-end filesystems.

Avere's edge filer architecture gives you the ability to set up a
virtual filesystem so that clients see one seamless file structure,
regardless of how files are actually stored on the back-end core
filers.

This Global Namespace feature (GNS) lets you specify a client-visible
namespace that maps to the actual back-end filesystems. Because the
client always uses the same virtual location to access a file, GNS
makes it possible to nondisruptively move live data between back-end
storage solutions, replace obsolete hardware, or dynamically scale to
cloud storage with Avere's FlashMirror, FlashMove, and FlashCloud
features.

A legacy option also exists in Avere OS, called a simple namespace. In
a simple namespace, one vserver is required for each core filer, and
clients use the same file structure that exists on the core filer.

In a GNS configuration, one GNS vserver can handle requests for
multiple core filers.

When you create a vserver, you must choose whether it uses GNS or a
simple namespace; you cannot switch settings after creating the
vserver. However, you can add vservers to an Avere cluster at any
time.

Designing a Global Namespace

Before implementing a global namespace, it is important to consider
the file and directory layout you want to present to clients.
(Although the namespace can be modified later,  changing the file
structure after clients have started using it can cause confusion.)

The figures below show physical and logical views of a sample global
namespace. Although files are actually stored on multiple back-end
systems, the clients see the simpler logical view created by junctions
on the Avere cluster.


To reach a file in the "pipeline" directory on the remote Linux
server, a client mounting the Avere cluster can simply change to the
directory "/sales/pipeline"

Elements of a Global Namespace

An Avere global namespace is constructed from these components:

A vserver, set to use GNS at creation time

Core filers, with exports that store the information requested through
the vserver

Junctions, which are links that define a virtual directory in the
global namespace and link it to an actual directory exported from the
core filer

Planning A Global Namespace

This section explains prerequisites and other considerations for
designing a global namespace on an Avere cluster.

Keep in mind the following constraints and advice when planning to
implement a global namespace in Avere OS.

Core Filer Compatibility

Use one of the supported core filer types. Contact your Avere Systems
representative for the current list.

Access Control Strategies

Consider how to control user access with export policies before
creating junctions.

User access can be controlled at the core filer export level or at the
GNS junction level.

Some types of core filers export only the filesystem root (/). If you
allow unrestricted access to this export, users have unlimited access
to all of the core filer's content (including any subdirectories).

If exporting the core filer root directory is optional, consider
exporting only subdirectories, or applying the most restrictive user
access setting available to the root export.

Ensure that appropriate export policies exist before creating
junctions.

Read

Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports

 to learn more.

Creating a Global Namespace

Configure your GNS in the VServer section of the Avere Control Panel
Settings utility. Read the

VServer > Namespace

 page reference for step-by-step instructions on how to map back-end
storage to the global namespace in your Avere cluster.
