VServer > Client Facing Network

The Client-Facing Network page has controls for configuring vserver IP
address ranges and for assigning specific addresses to particular
nodes.


If you have more than one vserver, select the vserver that you want to
configure by using the drop-down menu at the top of the page or in the
sidebar (1).

The table at the top lists all IP address ranges assigned to the
selected vserver.

Removing an IP Address Range

From the table of IP addresses, click the Remove button in the right
column (3) to remove the address range from the vserver.

Note: The Remove button is active only if the vserver has multiple
  IP address ranges. You cannot remove the last IP address range from
  a vserver.

Editing an IP Address Range

Click the Modify button (3) in the table of IP addresses to edit an
existing IP address range for this vserver.  The IP range details
section opens; you can change the first and last IP addresses, subnet
mask, and VLAN settings.

Remember to click Submit to save your changes.

Adding an IP Address Range

To add an IP address range for this vserver, click the Add New Range
button (2). (If your system has disabled

Advanced Networking

, this option is unavailable; only one address range can be defined.
Consider editing the existing range, or enabling Advanced Networking.)

The IP range details section opens.

Specify the first and last values for the IP address range that this
vserver will use to accept client requests.  The IP range must be
contiguous and manually assigned (not assigned by DHCP).

Enter the subnet mask associated with this VLAN. (You can choose which
VLAN to use in the next field.)

Optionally, select a VLAN from the drop-down VLAN list. The IP
addresses in this range will be associated with the VLAN that you
select.

Setting Home Nodes

In normal operation, client-facing IP addresses can move from node to
node in the cluster as a result of node failover or network
conditions. A home node setting ensures that a particular IP address
is reassigned to a specific cluster node after a failure or outage.

This feature allows you to customize the load distribution across
cluster nodes. For example, you could assign more IP addresses to
nodes with better connectivity, or isolate traffic so that some
clients always access certain nodes. It also allows you to consolidate
traffic to VMs to prevent them from becoming cold.

If home nodes are not configured, the cluster automatically balances
the client-facing IP addresses across all healthy nodes.

The cluster does not assign home nodes to client-facing IP addresses
by default; you must manually specify the home node for each client-
facing IP address that you want to use this feature.

Note: Because the system automatically averages the available IP
  addresses among the cluster nodes, assigning some IP addresses to
  one home node will not necessarily increase traffic to that node if
  other IP addresses are assigned automatically.For example, in a
  three-node cluster using nine client-facing IP addresses, each node
  would be assigned three IP addresses automatically. If you set two
  IP addresses to one home node but let the cluster automatically
  assign the other IP addresses, they system will give only one
  additional IP address to the node that already has two.If you want
  the client- facing IP addresses to be assigned unequally, set home
  nodes for all of the IP addresses in the range.

Assign home nodes in the IP Address Home Nodes table (4). This table
lists each client-facing IP address, the node to which it is currently
assigned, and its home node, if one exists.

To assign home nodes individually, use the drop-down selector in the
Home Node column to select the node for each IP address. You can
select any node in the cluster, or None.  Choosing a home node  Home
Node options

To make each IP addressâ€™s current node its home node, click the Make
Current Home button (5).

To reset all IP addresses to have no home node, click the Unhome All
button (5).

After you have made the appropriate home-node assignments for all IP
addresses, click Submit (5).  The system pops up a warning indicating
that changing home-node assignments for client-facing IP addresses can
affect service as the changes are made. Click OK to proceed.
