VServer > Export Policies


The Export Policies page allows you to assign a client access policy
to each of the exports from a core filer.

Export policies are made up of export rules, which determine how
clients matching various conditions are permitted to access files on
the back-end storage volume. Use the Export Rules page to create rules
and export policies. (A link to the

VServer > Export Rules

 page is included in each table row.)

To learn more about how Avere OS uses export policies to manage client
access in the cluster, read

Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports

.

If you have not modified the default export policy (named default), it
provides full access to the exported filesystem.

To apply an export policy:

Navigate to Export Policies page.

Make sure that the correct vserver is selected (use the drop-down
selector in the left menu to change vservers if necessary).

Select the core filer for which you want to configure access. The page
is populated with the exports available on that core filer.  The list
of exports for a well-used core filer

For each export that clients will access, select the appropriate
export policy from the drop-down list. (If you are using a global
namespace, some exports might not be accessed by clients. You should
apply policies to all exports that are part of a path mapped to a GNS
junction. Read Access Control Strategies to learn more about assigning
access policies to junctions and sub-junctions.)  Note that an export
policy set at the junction level overrides a policy set  export.
(Junction-level export policies are set from the VServer > Namespace
page.)

If applicable, click the Qtrees checkbox.  FXT qtrees permit the Cache
Utilization Control feature to limit modified data within top level
directories of a root export, so that client rename and hard link
operations across FXT qtree boundaries are not permitted.  Note that
the properties of FXT qtrees are not the same as those of NetApp
qtrees. Read Cache Policy Settings - Advanced Options for more
information about configuring the Cache Utilization Control.

Click Submit to apply all of the changes made in this list, or click
Reset to restore the original export settings.

Note: If your vserver includes multiple exports that use identical
  access rules, consider customizing the default export policy, which
  automatically is applied to all exports. This approach can be more
  efficient than creating a custom policy and applying it to each
  export individually.

Unmounting Exports

After an export is defined to the Avere cluster, the cluster assumes
it will be continuously available and attempts to reconnect with it if
contact is lost. If you want to unmount a back-end storage volume, be
sure to follow this procedure to avoid possible delays on the Avere
cluster.

Caution: Removing a core filer export from the back-end storage
  system can cause excessive latency on the Avere cluster if you
  unmount the export before marking it as offline.

Before unmounting any exports on your core filer, make sure that no
client access to those exports is being routed through the FXT Series
cluster, even if you plan to unmount and remount the clients.

Follow the procedure for unmounting exports as described in your core
filer documentation.  This example, from a NetApp Data ONTAP 7G
system, first marks the volume behind the export as offline:  exportfs
-u /vol/volX vol offline volX  The -u parameter on the exportfs
command unexports the specified volume without changing the Data ONTAP
systemâ€™s/etc/exportsfile.  If and when the volume comes back online,
mark it as online by running the following commands on the Data ONTAP
system:  vol online volX exportfs /vol/volX  Check the list on the
Export Policies page to ensure that the export no longer appears in
the list.
