Appendix B: Security Requirements for Administrative Systems

Make sure that systems used to administer the Avere cluster meet the
security requirements described below. These requirements apply both
to systems that use the Avere Control Panel to configure the cluster
and also to systems used for command-line management with the XML-RPC
API.

These requirements do

not

 affect client systems that access the cluster or its cache, they only
apply to workstations that are used to configure the cluster.

SSH Ciphers

As of Avere OS version 4.7.3.2, the cluster SSH server accepts only
the following security algorithms:

      Ciphers  chacha20-poly1305@openssh.com  aes256-gcm@openssh.com
aes128-gcm@openssh.com*  aes256-ctr  aes192-ctr*  aes128-ctr*  MACs
hmac-sha2-512-etm@openssh.com  hmac-sha2-256-etm@openssh.com
umac-128-etm@openssh.com*  hmac-sha2-512  hmac-sha2-256
umac-128@openssh.com*  hmac-sha1*  KEX Algorithms
curve25519-sha256@libssh.org  ecdh-sha2-nistp521  ecdh-sha2-nistp384
ecdh-sha2-nistp256  diffie-hellman-group-exchange-sha256  diffie-
hellman-group14-sha1*

^*

Note:

 SHA1 and AES128 are provided for backward-compatibility with outdated
SSH clients only. These algorithms will be phased out in future
releases. Please update all SSH clients to use more modern algorithms.

HTTPS Configuration

All HTTPS endpoints (used for web administration and XML-RPC API
access, among others) explicitly reject connections that use insecure
legacy protocols and cipher suites.

This standard affects all systems on administrative workstations that
use HTTPS, including web browsers, OpenSSL, and Python installations.

Settings should correspond to the Modern TLS protocol described in
these articles:

https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS

https://mozilla.github.io/server-side-tls/ssl-config-generator/

The Mozilla wiki page includes a

list of web browsers

  that have the minimum support necessary for the Modern
configuration.

TLS Version 1.2

Only

 Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol version 1.2 is accepted.
Insecure legacy protocols, including SSL, TLS v1.0, and TLS v1.1 are
rejected.

TLS v1.2 support was introduced in Python v 2.7.9, Python v 3.4, and
OpenSSL v 1.0.1; however, Avere Systems recommends upgrading
administrative machines to the latest versions of Python and OpenSSL
to include additional security updates and bug fixes.

Apache Settings

The Apache web server is configured to permit only the following
security standards:

Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Exchange (ECDHE) key exchange

ECDSA and RSA signature algorithms

AES256, AES128 ciphers (including AES-GCM mode) with SHA256 or SHA384
message authentication

CHACHA20 cipher with POLY1305 message authentication
