Using the Avere Control Panel Support Tab

The Avere Control Panelâ€™s Support tab contains tools to help you work
with Avere Global Services to investigate and fix problems that might
occur with your Avere cluster.

In addition to providing Avere Global Services contact information and
documentation links, the Support tab provides interfaces for uploading
system information to Avere's technical support department to help
Avere's support engineers assess your situation.


To read product documentation, or to contact Avere Global Services for
software support, use the

contact information

 listed on the left side of the page.

The Support tab has controls for uploading cluster information to
Avere Systems for use in identifying a possible problem. The tools and
options are described in more detail in the sections below:

Details

Support Status

General Information Upload

Advanced Information Gathering

Core Dump Management

The behavior of the Support tab also relies on the configuration
settings in the

Cluster > Support

 page (under the Settings tab of the Avere Control Panel). Use the
settings page to turn on monitoring options that gather the
information that can be uploaded from this page.

Note: The controls on this page should be used in conjunction with
  Avere Global Services. Follow their directions when using any of
  these features.

Details

The first section on the Support tab gives basic information about the
cluster and allows you to change the scope of the information gathered
and uploaded to Avere Systems for support purposes.

In the Choose Node selector, you can select a single node to examine,
or Cluster Wide to investigate all nodes in the cluster. This
selection affects the nodes that are shown in the Support Status table
and also the scope of the information uploaded to Avere Systems.

If you select a single node, only that node uploads troubleshooting
information to Avere Global Services.

If you select Cluster Wide, every node in the cluster uploads the
information.

Note that you must select a node in order to upload core files. The
Core dump management panel (described

below

) does not appear if Cluster Wide is selected.

The Upload information validated status message shows whether or not
Avere Global Services has successfully received information from the
cluster. If it reads "no", check the

Customer Information

 section of the

Cluster > Support

 settings page to retry the upload or work around failures.

Support Status

The Support Status table shows the status of support information
uploads for the selected node, or for all nodes in the cluster (if
Cluster Wide is selected in Choose Node).

General Information Upload

Use the General Information Upload section to send system information
about the node or cluster to Avere Global Services.

Note: The manual uploads available from this page supplement the
  automatic nightly uploads that you can configure on the

  Cluster > Support

   settings page.If you select the Statistics Monitoring or General
  Information Upload checkboxes in the Customer Info section of the

  Cluster > Support

   settings page, Avere OS automatically uploads the selected data to
  Avere Global Services each night at approximately 1:00 a.m. local
  time.

To use the manual upload feature on the Support tab, follow these
steps:

Choose the type of information to upload with the Choose gather mode
selector. Options are described in detail below.

Optional: Type a note for the upload in the Comment text field.

Click the Upload information button.

Selecting the Information To Upload

The "gather mode" setting lets you choose what information will be
uploaded.

Note that

collecting

 the information for these uploads is enabled or disabled on the

Cluster > Support

 settings page. If you select statistics upload on the Support tab but
you have not configured statistics monitoring on the Cluster > Support
settings page, your upload will contain an empty statistics report.
Use the

Customer Information

 section of the

Cluster > Support

 settings page to turn on information collection for the items you
want to upload.

Gather mode options include the following:

Support bundle (default value) -  This option uploads the Normal
support information package, plus the Current statistic information
package.

Normal support information -  This option does an immediate manual
upload of the General Information Upload data that can be set for
nightly upload from the Cluster > Support settings page. Up to four
days' data is included in this upload.

Maximum support information -  This option uploads the same
information in the Normal support information package, but does not
restrict the uploaded data to the most recent four days.

Current statistic information -  Uploads statistics information
collected since 1:00 a.m. (that is, since the regular nightly upload).
Note that you must turn on statistics collection and nightly upload on
the Cluster > Support settings page to populate this report.

Rolling trace information -  Uploads rolling trace information for a
configurable time period. The default time value is ten minutes before
and two minutes after the current date and time.

Rolling management trace information -  Uploads management trace
information. You can configure the time period; the default value is
ten minutes before and two minutes after the current date and time.

The following options should be used only when Avere Global Services
advises you to do so:

Historical statistic information

Local directory information

Data dump information

Current trace information

Retry active failed uploads

Retry all failed uploads

Remove failed uploads

Advanced Information Gathering

The Advanced information gathering panel can be used to collect
additional information for uploading. In general, you should use this
only when directed to do so by Avere Global Services, and with the
settings they recommend.


This panel lets you to gather more specific data for a set period of
time (or indefinitely, until stopped).

Types of information gathering available from this panel include:

Full packet capture -  Gathers a packet capture on all interfaces for
the selected node, or cluster-wide

Full packet capture (10GB Ring buffer) -  Gathers a packet capture on
all node or cluster interfaces as above, but without exceeding 10GB
size

Performance information -  Provides detailed output on the performance
of key system components

Memory Debugging -  Gives detailed information about memory usage

Stats gathering -  Collects cluster-wide or per-node statistics in
30-second iterations

Trace options -  Trace  Trace/partial packet  Directory Trace  Local
Directory Trace  Read/Write Trace  Timing Trace  Writeback Trace  Each
of these options gathers program execution data according to the
option selected.  The trace options on this menu are disabled if
Gather rolling trace data is enabled on the Cluster > Support settings
page. That is, you can either capture rolling trace data for the
cluster or capture the specific data in these options, but not both at
the same time.

After choosing a gather mode, configure the time period for the data
collection by selecting an option from the Gather Duration drop-down
list:

Until manually stopped - Data collection continues until you click the
Stop collecting button.

A number of minutes, ranging from 1 minute to 30 minutes

Most gather mode options have a default time of ten minutes.

Click the Start collecting button to begin data collection.

You can use the Stop collecting button to quit collecting data at any
time.

Core Dump Management

Note: The Core Dump Management panel appears only if a single node
  is selected in the

  Details

   section.


Use the Core dump management panel if you need to upload a core file
after a failure. You can also use this section to delete core files.

The Select core field automatically loads a list of core files on the
node, if any exist. Use the drop-down selector to choose the file to
upload or delete.

Optionally, you can add a text note for the upload in the Comment
field.

To upload the core file to Avere Systems, click the Upload core
button.

To delete the core file from the node, click the Remove core button.

Getting Help and Finding Documentation

The information in the left margin of the support page explains how to
contact Avere Global Services by phone, web, or email.

It also includes links to documentation, such as the Release Notes for
this version of the software, and the online Configuration Guide.
Additional documentation can be found at

http://azure.github.io/Avere/

.

The Multi-Cluster Dashboard link opens a system viewer that allows you
to monitor the health of multiple clusters on one page. Detailed
documentation for this cluster manager is being developed.

